
FRECLIEN - Free-threaded client of a free-threaded server


NOTE: FRECLIEN uses CoInitializeEx. CoInitializeEx is implemented only on
Windows NT 4.0 and later versions. It is also implemented in the DCOM95
addition to Win95. This sample will not run on earlier versions of Windows
NT or on Win95 without DCOM95.


SUMMARY
=======

The FRECLIEN sample spawns multiple threads to create and use the COBall
COM object provided by the FRESERVE free-threaded server. COBall object
itself spawns no threads; it passively responds to IBall interface
requests from multiple client threads. The FRECLIEN client creates and
controls one COBall object through the IBall interface that the object
exposes. As three of FRECLIEN's threads move the ball through calls to
IBall::Move, the remaining main thread uses a system timer to obtain timed
updates of the COBall object's position, size, and color. This main thread
uses that data, obtained by calling the IBall::GetBall method, to display
graphical snapshot images of the ball in the client's main window.

As explained in the FRESERVE sample, the COBall object internally updates
its color property to reflect the last thread that called the object's
Move method. The display thread uses this data for each ball image it
displays. As the ball moves, it changes color to reflect the changing
threads that move the ball. As the ball moves, it also leaves a trail that
provides a striking visual history of these passing threads. This trail
demonstrates that, with COM's free threading model, all threads that make
interface requests to the same object access the object on the different
calling threads. Each different color of the single ball object represents
a different calling thread. Since the display thread is asynchronous with
respect to the ball-moving threads, there is no guarantee that the display
trail will include a record of every thread that moved the ball. Based on
thread scheduling and on the load of other applications running, not all
threads that move the ball are "caught in the act" by the display thread.

This free threading model is in contrast to the apartment model presented
in the APTSERVE and APTCLIEN samples. In apartment model threading, each
COM object is associated with an single-threaded apartment. Calls from
multiple client threads are switched by COM to the thread of the apartment
that owns the object. Only one thread, the object's apartment thread, is
permitted to execute the methods of the object. This provides a
serialization of access to the object's data.

For functional descriptions and a tutorial code tour of FRECLIEN, see the
Code Tour section in FRECLIEN.HTM. For details on the external user
operation of FRECLIEN, see both the Usage and Operation sections in
FRECLIEN.HTM. To read FRECLIEN.HTM, run TUTORIAL.EXE in the main tutorial
directory and click the FRECLIEN lesson in the table of lessons. You can
also achieve the same thing by clicking the FRECLIEN.HTM file after
locating the main tutorial directory in the Windows Explorer. See also
FRESERVE.HTM in the main tutorial directory for more details on how
FRESERVE works and exposes its services to FRECLIEN. You must build the
FRESERVE DLL before building FRECLIEN. The makefile for FRESERVE
automatically registers that server in the system registry, so you must
build FRESERVE before attempting to run FRECLIEN.

For details on setting up your system to build and test the code samples
in this COM Tutorial series, see TUTORIAL.HTM. The supplied MAKEFILE is
Microsoft NMAKE-compatible. To create a debug build, issue the NMAKE
command in the Command Prompt window.

Usage
-----

FRECLIEN is an application that you can execute directly from Windows in
the normal manner or from the Command Prompt window. No command line
parameters are recognized by FRECLIEN. FRECLIEN currently requires the
free-threading facilities provided in more recent releases of COM such as
found in version 4.0 and later releases of the Windows NT operating
system. The Windows 95 operating system does not currently support free
threading, so FRECLIEN will not run on it. However, a DCOM95 add-on to
Win95 will permit the FRECLIEN/FRESERVE samples to run on Win95. DCOM95 is
currently nearing release.


FILES
=====

Files          Description

FRECLIEN.TXT   This file.
MAKEFILE       The generic makefile for building the code sample
               application of this tutorial lesson.
FRECLIEN.H     The include file for the FRECLIEN application. Contains
               class declarations, function prototypes, and resource
               identifiers.
FRECLIEN.CPP   The main implementation file for FRECLIEN.EXE. Has WinMain
               and CMainWindow implementation, as well as the main menu
               dispatching.
FRECLIEN.RC    The application resource definition file.
FRECLIEN.ICO   The application icon resource.
GUIBALL.H      The class declaration for the CGuiBall C++ class.
GUIBALL.CPP    Implementation file for the CGuiBall C++ class.
